Okay, in this video, we are going to take
a look at testing and running with the
JAXB generated classes. I do
run into a couple of nuances here with
the testing of these classes. Run into a
couple minor problems. It really has
to do with how a multi module maven
build is behaving and some of the
refreshing happening under the covers. And
then, I do hit an unexpected problem with
Mockito. So, I kind of left the
troubleshooting in for your benefit.
I'm going to jump over to the video now and
show you going through in generating
the tests. Now, before I get going further,
what I want to do is just double check.
We did a pretty major refactoring here,
so let's go ahead and run our tests.
So, we're going to run those. Want to make
sure that the test run, then I want to
demonstrate running this application
actually with the JAXB generated
classes. So, make sure that everything's
still happy.
So, our Spring MVC tests are running. It
looks like our Customer did pass. So,
as soon as that is done, I'm going to go
ahead and start Spring Boot. So all our
tests pass.
Yay! So now, let's come up here
and we'll go ahead.
He was already running.
Just like this was. So,
let's go ahead. That was my mistake.
He's probably not happy. Let's go ahead
and run him again. IntelliJ is lost.
Lost its configuration. So, let's close
this. So, Spring Boot was running while I
refactor this, so probably not happy
about that at all. So, let's go ahead and
close this, and see if we can give
IntelliJ to run him. So, what's happening is, see a little
red X there? IntelliJ is looking for it at the
previous project location so should
run him from the new location pretty
painlessly, I hope. So, there we go. We are
in fact starting up Spring Boot. So that is starting up
normally. Let's come over to Postman now.
We are going against few. We're still
going to be at api/v1customer, so let's
go see. See that run, and now, we can see
there. There's our XML customers
customers. So, I don't like that. I wanted
that to be customer.
Let's go take a closer look at that. See
if we can fix that real quick. So, that
looks okay to me. Double-check here.
Generated class here.
Okay, so this is getting called customers
and that's getting called customers. So,
that's the problem there. That's my
to do list.
I'm going to pause this. Look a little
closer. Okay, I realized what happened. I'd
taken a little closer look. The XSD was
actually right, but I was working between
the two modules and I didn't do a clean
package on the parent. So effectively,
what was happening is I was getting a
stale dependency being brought in, so I
wasn't getting those changes, and when I
applied those changes, the customer URL
was still the underscore. So, if I come
over to Postman, you can see that also. So,
the changes that we applied were not
getting picked up. So now, if I come in, I
just ran the test so let's go ahead make
sure our tests pass using that new type.
Now, know that we are still not. We're
still getting a failure there.
firstname should be there.
So now, we're getting a null
empty. That's still
the customerUrl. Why are you looking for
customerUrl? I'm going to pause this and I
get these passing again. Hold on one
second. Okay, I dug in a little bit closer
and hit a little weirdness going on. You
may encounter this. I didn't have to do
any code changes except for this
customerUrl here. What I did have to do
is go and do a clean package. So, I was
getting an error around firstname on
one of the tests, and I'm not quite sure
what happened but a clean rebuild redid
it or fixed it. I think it was a problem
with the IntelliJ indexing, possibly with
some of the changes in the generated code.
But things weren't happy there. But one
rule of thumb is if things are failing
and then inside the IDE, being IntelliJ
in this case, if things are failing and
it doesn't seem like they should be,
always go over to Maven. Do a clean, and
just as a refresher, if you're not
familiar with Maven, that clean action is
going to clean out, and you can see
everything went red because that clean
deleted those generated classes. Now, I'm
going to go ahead and say do a
package. Actually, if I run and
install, that will install the jars into
my local Maven repository. It went red like
that because I don't have that jar
installed in my repository, so IntelliJ
can't locate it. That's why everything's
red. Once this build completes, we
will see that everything does pass again.
So, the problems I'm running into are
not consistent. So, this here is coming up
and it's saying no. That's happening
because a Mockito is returning back a
null value. This matcher isn't working
with the JAXB. So, let's go ahead and
run this test again.
this should run from Maven properly. This
is kind of a unexpected issue. This Java
development sometimes, this is the way
things go. It should work pretty
consistently, but we are not getting that. So, I'm going to change
this to any.
Now, any, that matcher isn't working. So,
run this one more time.
Okay, so that is working. I'm going to
run this one more time than talk while
it's going through. So, let's make sure
everything's happening. So, that JAXB
annotated class or generated class, for
some reason, Mockito is not happy with
that in the matcher. So, I was
matching on the object type and I
honestly would expect that to continue
working properly. But it did not in the
test. So, that is kind of
interesting. I'm not sure why Mockito
would not be matching that like any
other Java class. I did change it to any
matcher. So, I'm going to check it in that
way. I'm really not sure what happened
there. Why it's not happy using a matcher
that way. But now the problem why
this was failing is that matcher was
failing. And so, it was returning back a
null, which was failing the test. So, when
you got down here to jsonPath, it was
looking for firstname on a null object
because of this ultimately failed. But
you can see here, I just run the test a
couple times. Hopefully, this doesn't
cause you problems. But, the one
update that I did make is changing the
matcher here on the Mockito Mock to any.
That's, I honestly, I mean, I've got a lot
of experience with Java and I honestly
would not expect that to have caused a
problem, just because we are now using a
type from a jar rather than the local
project. It should work either way. So,
that's kind of interesting that he was
unhappy about that.
So, some nuance with Mockito. But I am
going to check in the code. Hope you found
this in value and I do like to leave
some of debugging in here, because I know
some instructors like to show you happy
path all the time.
I don't always believe in doing that
because sometimes errors happen, and I
think there's a learning opportunity to
work through errors like this. So, I thank
you for your patience and hope you found
value in this. So, one last thing that we
want to do is go ahead and run this
application. So, I'm going to come up here
and go down to the rest application
and we will run this. So, we'll get it
running within the Spring Boot Context.
Again, you can see that this is starting
up and I want to go over to the rest
endpoint and
test the output of that. So, we can see
that it's now back up. Let's come over to
Postman and we'll do a send there. So, we
are still getting a CustomerListDTO
customers customers. Didn't get
that resolved, but we do have the proper
customerUrl being displayed now. So,
that's interesting. I'm not sure why that
is happening out. I'll take a look see if
I can figure that out. But we can also
now come in and change this to JSON.
Let's verify that the JSON view does
work. So now, we can see
that we are getting this back from the
JAXB generated class.